<head>
<title>0002 - Indonesia</title>
<link rel="stylesheet" href="index.css"/>
<meta charset="utf-8"/>
</head>

Indonesia, the story of my home
==================================

I was not born in the beautiful country of Indonesia. In fact I wish I was sometimes but I also admire my own country 
(sometimes). I grew up in the tropical country from age eleven until age sixteen just about seventeen. I would go to say
that sometimes I call Indonesia, "my country." I grew up there and for the longest time it was all I knew. I started my
journey in Indonesia on the island of Java, I spent nine months there while my parents were in school learning bahasa 
Indonesia (the language of Indonesia). During that time, I did not like the place I lived. I was different, very
different. I did not have brown skin, I did not eat rice for every meal, I didn't speak their language and I did not
know their games. But to make things worse, they did not look like me, they didn't eat potatos, they didn't speak my
language and they didn't know my games. We were so different and so for the first nine months I lived in the country, I
did not have very many Indonesian friends, I really only had one and he left before I did. He had to go back to his home
in Medan, near the top of North Sumatra. 

After a while of living in Indonesia, my parents decided we should move so we did, we went to Manado, in North Sulawesi.
For one week, I lived in Manado. Our house was mostly vacant. There wasn't much to do except sit around. I still
couldn't communicate with the people around me and now, the people around me spoke a new language, "bahasa Manado," a
hodgepodge of words from Dutch, Portuguese, Spanish, Indonesian, English and Spanish as well as some older words from
the local area. The grammar was slightly simpler but Indonesian is not really complicated grammatically. As soon as that
week is over I went to Australia to visit my grandmother who said, "I will not come to Indonesia but I will meet you in
the middle." She was afraid of Malaria and Dengue fever, which my mother had for two weeks while we lived in Java. My
dad at one point claimed he had gotten Malaria but we are not sure that he did.

Australia was fun and I enjoyed it. My grandma brought me circuit boards and little trinkets to play with which I
brought home and several of the circuits were faulty beyond repair. That was often a source of frustration that I had to
wait for my hobbies to arrive from overseas. When I got back from Australia my life felt like hell. I was beyond very
depressed. I wasn't happy in Indonesia, especially not Manado. Manado felt so backward. The street I lived on wasn't
paved, it was unnamed so nothing could be mailed to our house, it had a squatty-potty and our power went out all the
time. When the power was out we often also didn't have water, in fact at one point, our well went dry and we had no
water to shower with so I did not shower for a week. I thought, "why do I have to live in this backward place?"
Eventually, my parents sent me to an Indonesian school. I was scared to go there, it was different. I was the only white
person there. I struggled to make friends. I struggled to get people to speak my language even though they were supposed
to (now I think trying to make someone speak a different language is very wrong and backwards, so, hey! Look how we
change). After suffering a lot of abuse, from teachers being sexual with me, to getting jumped in the bathrooms, to
being ostracized and bullied, I left that school and went to virtual school.

Virtual school left me pretty lonely. I spent all day in front of my computer, I would play on it until it died when the
power went out. I had a handful of friends, a Aussie-Kiwi and some "org Manado." We would go on adventures to different
islands and they taught me so much of what I know and believe. A lot of the things they told me still float around in my
mind even though I haven't heard from many of them in years and haven't seen them in almost five. I was around them so
much I learned "bahasa Manado." I was starting to do better but there was still a lot of unhealthy things going on and
I don't have a lot to share from this time because it was just too hard on me but for the sake of understanding the
story just know it was a dark time.

Here's the thing though. I don't want you to feel bad for me. I don't want anyone to feel bad for me. Everything that
happened made me a better person and even though I was in bad situations they just made me stronger.

After a year and a half of living in Manado my parents decided it was time for me to go back to Java, the city: Salatiga.
I would end up living there for from age thirteen until just around when I turned seventeen. The first year there was
miserable. Moving just makes you miserable. It takes energy and motivation out of you for months and years. You feel
trapped, you know what I am saying? I started going to language school and learned my third language, "bahasa Indonesa."
Every day I practiced my language with a friend named Dimas. We had so much fun laughing and talking and just hanging
out that summer. It was then that I started learning about my country and its history, the things that they don't teach
you in school. Dimas' dad was our mentor. He taught us about how great our country was and how evil the Dutch were. He
taught us about our rich culture and how Indonesia was a land for everybody.

We were also taught the secret of our language. That it is a very powerful language, what takes an English speaker a
long sentence to say we can usually say in a few words. We learned that our language wasn't a natural language that came
from people but instead was a mixing of words and vocabularies from many languages spoken in Indonesia. Our language was
deliberately made very strong and it was designed to match the way of our people, strong, diverse and expressive.

I realized that I was being invited to join a very special group of people, that I was going to, now, realize what made
Indonesia so special and I was going to fall in love with it. I quickly met others like me, we were like young students
hand picked as those who had the mental capacity to understand our country. We learned things that were treated like
secrets. Our country no longer looked weak, our ideals were so strong. When I met Pak Diki, I learned so much and to
this day he like a father to me. He fed me when I was hungry and counseled me when I needed advice, he was always there
for me and it pains me that I am no longer able to talk to him. He treated me like family and I hope he knows that he is
my role model. Pak Diki was the one who taught me, "before you can accomplish anything, you have to be in agreement.
First you must be in agreement with your internals: the heart, the mind and the body, then also the spirit and then with
God. If you can do that, you can accomplish anything." Those words gave me so much hope. I filled up an entire notebook
with meditations on those words and their implications. I expanded on them as much as I could in an attempt to fill in
their meaning but, really, all you need is those words. Pak Diki is easily the wisest man I ever met and I wish there
was a way to pay him back for all the things he taught me.

Because of the things they taught me, I loved my country.

<blockquote> ꦩꦠꦸꦂ ꦱꦸꦮꦸꦤ꧀ ꦥꦏ꧀ ꦢꦶꦏꦶ </blockquote>